## Example implementation of Todo app using Redux in React

## Action
Actions are payloads of information that send data from your application to your store.
They are only the __source of information__ for your store.
Action are plain JS object. 
It must have a type property that indicates the type of action performed.
```
    // Here 'text' is the payload that is added to the store.
    {
        type: 'ADD_TODO',
        text: 'Build my first React app'
    }

    function addTodo(text) {
        return { type:'ADD_TODO', text }
    }
```


## Reducer
A state defination is defined under Reducer.
A state is an object that contains the attributes of the core app.
You define Reducers to make changes in the state of the app.
A reducer has a signature of
```
    function todo_reducer(state,action) {
        return state
    }
```
It accepts a state (OR, a subset state), and an action.
It returns a new state based on the type of action specified.
The provided state is not mutated; but a cloned state with necessary modification is returned.
The helper function __combineReducer__ helps to combine the results of mulitple reducers into a single state tree. It is also known as __reducer composition__.
Hence, we can pass a partial state into a reducer function.
So, that the reducer working on that part of state, only cares about its part; it is completely unknown of the other state elements.
```
    const todos = (state=[],action) => {
        ...
        return state
    }

    const visibiltyFilter = (state='SHOW_ALL',action) => {
        ....
        return state
    }

    todoApp = combineReducer(todos,visibilityFilter)
```
_Note :_ A reducer is a pure function. It only computes the next state. It should be completely predictable: calling it with the same inputs many times should produce the same outputs. It shouldn't perform any side effects like API calls or router transitions. These should happen before an action is dispatched.


## Store

Store holds application state. 
Allows access to its state by _getState()_.
Allows state to be updated by _dispatch(action)_.
Registers listeners for state update by _subscribe(listener)_.
Handles unregistering of the listeners via the function returned by _subscribe(listener)_.

```
    // It stores the complete state tree returned by the root reducer
    let store = createStore(todoApp)
    
    // Every time state changes log it
    const unsubscribe = store.subscribe(() => (
        console.log(store.getState())
    ))

    // On every dispatch, the listeners will be called.
    store.dispatch(addTodo("Build app"))
```


## Presentational and Container Component

|                | Presentational Components        | Container Components                          |
|----------------|----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| Purpose 	     | How things look (markup, styles) | How things work (data fetching, state updates)|
| Aware of Redux | No                               | Yes                                           |
| To read data 	 | Read data from props 	        | Subscribe to Redux state                      | 
| To change data | Invoke callbacks from props      | Dispatch Redux actions                        |
| Are written 	 | By hand 	                        | Usually generated by React Redux              |


### Designing Presentational Components
From https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html

1.  Break the UI into a component heirarchy 
2.  Each component must be atomic. It must be used for the specific task.
3.  Build the static version of the App. (Use props to pass data using Top-to-Down Approach)
4.  Identify the minimal (but complete) representation of the state.
    -   If it is passed from Parent via props, it probably isn't state.
    -   If it remains unchanged over time, it probably isn't state.
    -   If you can compute it based on other state or props, it probably isn't state.
5.  Identify where your state must live in.
    -   Identify every components that renders something based on that state.
    -   Find a common owner that might need similar state.
    -   Either the common owner or another component higher up in the hierarchy should own the state.
    -   If you can't find the component which makes sense to own the component,
        create a new component simply for holding the component,
        and add it somewhere in the hierarchy above the common owner component.
6.  Add the Inverse Data Flow.
    -   Pass callbacks thorough the hierarchy, that would fire when the state should change.


Here is the UI components for the Todo App:
-   TodoList is a list showing visible todos.
    -   todos: an array of todo items with { id, text, completed } shape.
        onTodoClick(id: number) is a callback to invoke when a todo is clicked.
-   Todo is a single todo item.
    -   text: string is the text to show.
    -   completed: boolean is whether todo should appear crossed out.
    -   onClick() is a callback to invoke when a todo is clicked.
-   Link is a link with a callback.
    -   onClick() is a callback to invoke when link is clicked.
-   Footer is where we let the user change currently visible todos.
-   App is the root component that renders everything else.

## Designing Container Components
Container Components acts as bridge between Presentational components and Redux Store.
It provides the necessary props including callbacks (for dispatch actions) to Presentational Components to work.
Technically, we could use _store.subscribe()_ to read a part of the Redux state tree and supply props to a presentational component it renders. 
But, we also have Redux library's connect() function, which provides many useful optimizations to prevent unnecessary re-renders. 

To use connect(), we need to define two functions:
__mapStateToProps()__ and __mapDispatchToProps()__.

_mapStateToProps()_ maps tells how to transfrom current Redux store into props you want to pass to the
Presentational component you are wrapping.  
If this argument is specified in the Connect function, the new component will subscribe to Redux store updates. This means that any time the store is updated, mapStateToProps will be called. The results of mapStateToProps must be a plain object, which will be merged into the component’s props. If you don't want to subscribe to store updates, pass null or undefined in place of mapStateToProps.

_mapDispatchToProps()_
If your mapDispatchToProps function is declared as taking two parameters, it will be called with dispatch as the first parameter and the props passed to the connected component as the second parameter, and will be re-invoked whenever the connected component receives new props. (The second parameter is normally referred to as ownProps by convention.)

-   Inject just dispatch and don't listen to store
```
    export default connect()(TodoApp)
```
For more examples:
https://github.com/reactjs/react-redux/blob/master/docs/api.md#examples

## Implementing other components

Sometimes, we don't need to separate a component into Presentational and Conatainer components.
As such, both the UI and functionalities can be added to a single component.

In the todo app, 
AddTodo component has a _input_ and a _button_ UI component.